examples/README.md, before:

# MAX examples

These examples demonstrate the power and flexibility of
[MAX](https://docs.modular.com/max/). They include:

## [MAX Pipelines](../pipelines/python)

End-to-end demonstrations of common AI workloads and more, built using
[Mojo](https://docs.modular.com/mojo/) and the
[MAX Graph API](https://docs.modular.com/max/graph/).

## [PyTorch and ONNX inference on MAX](inference/)

MAX has the power to accelerate existing PyTorch and ONNX models directly, and
provides Python, Mojo, and C APIs for this. These examples showcase common
models from these frameworks and how to run them even faster via MAX.

## MAX Engine extensibility

We removed the extensibility API in v24.5 (it was added in v24.3) and we're
replacing it with a better version soon. Because MAX is still a preview, we
don't want to leave APIs in the platform that we have no intention to support.
Stay tuned for an improved extensibility API that works on both CPUs and GPUs.

## [Jupyter notebooks](notebooks/)

Jupyter notebooks that showcase PyTorch and ONNX models being accelerated
through MAX.

Commit message:

[Docs] [Examples] Update examples README to replace mention of Mojo pipelines with custom ops
The README for the MAX examples was referencing the previously-removed
Mojo pipelines and was lacking a section on the new custom ops examples.
The README has been updated to reflect this, and an additional
description was added for the new top-K sampler example.

MODULAR_ORIG_COMMIT_REV_ID: 3062bf4ae1460dc575a227f742b02854a246884d

examples/README.md, after:

# MAX examples

These examples demonstrate the power and flexibility of
[MAX](https://docs.modular.com/max/). They include:

## [Custom GPU and CPU operations in Mojo](custom_ops/)

The [MAX Graph API](https://docs.modular.com/max/graph/) provides a powerful
framework for staging computational graphs to be run on GPUs, CPUs, and more.
Each operation in one of these graphs is defined in
[Mojo](https://docs.modular.com/mojo/), an easy-to-use language for writing
high-performance code.

The examples here illustrate how to construct custom graph operations in Mojo
that run on GPUs and CPUs, as well as how to build computational graphs that
contain and run them on different hardware architectures.

## [PyTorch and ONNX inference on MAX](inference/)

MAX has the power to accelerate existing PyTorch and ONNX models directly, and
provides Python, Mojo, and C APIs for this. These examples showcase common
models from these frameworks and how to run them even faster via MAX.

## [Jupyter notebooks](notebooks/)

Jupyter notebooks that showcase PyTorch and ONNX models being accelerated
through MAX.
