pipelines/python/mistral/README.md, before:

# Mistral NeMo

**Language:** Python

**API**: MAX Graph

This pipeline provides optimized support for the `MistralForCausalLM` family
of large language models, as exemplified by the Mistral NeMo 12B text
completion model. The model itself has been constructed in Python
using the [MAX Graph API](https://docs.modular.com/max/graph/).

The MAX Graph API provides an accessible interface to the construction of
flexible accelerated compute graphs, which are then optimized by the MAX
Engine's advanced graph compiler. This pipeline showcases how a large language
model can be fully defined using Python and MAX Graphs and then compiled for
optimal inference performance via the MAX Engine.

## Model

[Mistral NeMo](https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-nemo/) is an open source large
language model released by [Mistral AI](https://mistral.ai) in partnership
with NVIDIA. The weight checkpoints have been released under an Apache 2.0
license.

The default settings for this pipeline use the NeMo 12B set of pretrained
weights in the `bfloat16` encoding.

## Usage

The easiest way to try out this pipeline is with our Magic command-line tool.

1. Install Magic on macOS and Ubuntu with this command:

   ```shell
   curl -ssL https://magic.modular.com | bash
   ```

   Then run the source command that's printed in your terminal.

   To see the available commands, you can run `magic --help`.
   [Learn more about Magic here](https://docs.modular.com/magic).

2. Clone the MAX examples repository:

   If you don't already have a local clone of this repository, create one via:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/modularml/max.git
   ```

   The following instructions assume that you're present within this pipeline's
   directory, and you can change to it after cloning:

   ```shell
   cd max/pipelines/python/
   ```

3. Now run the Mistral text completion demo with the following command:

   ```shell
   magic run mistral --prompt "I believe the meaning of life is"
   ```

4. Host a chat completion endpoint via MAX Serve.

   MAX Serve provides functionality to host performant OpenAI compatible
   endpoints using the FastAPI framework.

   You can configure the pipeline to be hosted by using the `--serve` argument.
   For example:

   ```shell
   magic run mistral --serve
   ```

   A request can be submitted via a cURL command.

   ```shell
   curl -N http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
   -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   -d '{
       "model": "mistralai/Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407",
       "stream": true,
       "messages": [
           {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
           {"role": "user", "content": "Who won the world series in 2020?"}
       ]
   }'
   ```

   Additionally, finetuned weights hosted on Hugging Face for any compatible
   `MistralForCausalLM` model can be used with this optimized architecture
   via the `serve` command:

   ```shell
   magic run serve --huggingface-repo-id=mistralai/Ministral-8B-Instruct-2410
   ```

## Options

The following command-line options are available to customize operation of the
pipeline:

- `--max-length`: Controls the maximum length of the text sequence
  (includes the input tokens).
  (Default value: 512)
- `--max-new-tokens`: The maximum number of new tokens to generate. If a -1
  value is provided, the model will continue to generate tokens for the entire
  context length. (Default value: -1)
- `--prompt`: The text prompt to use for further generation.
- `--quantization-encoding`: The encoding to use for a datatype that can be
  quantized to a low bits per weight format. The options for quantized formats
  will download and cache default weights, but `float32` requires the use of
 `--weight-path` to specify locally downloaded full-precision weights for use
  in the model.
  Valid values: `bfloat16`, `float32`.
  (Default value: `float32`).
- `--save-to-serialized-model-path`: If specified, writes the serialized model
  to this path.
- `--serialized-model-path`: If specified, tries to load a serialized model
  from this path.
- `--top-k`: Limits the sampling to the K most probable tokens. Default is 1.
- `--weight-path`: Overrides the default URL, and allows for an
  already-downloaded pretrained weight file to be used with the model.
- `--max-cache-batch-size`: Specifies the maximum batch size to be used.
  Default is 1.
- `--use-gpu`: Uses the GPU to execute the model.

Commit message:

[Pipelines] Add initial implementation of `--devices` flag in PipelineConfig and run on GPU by default even if `--use-gpu` is not provided. We also maintain backwards compatibility for the `--use-gpu` flag for now.
MODULAR_ORIG_COMMIT_REV_ID: 674a9167781cec8d9bbbfcd5a21c253686e96730

pipelines/python/mistral/README.md, after:

# Mistral NeMo

**Language:** Python

**API**: MAX Graph

This pipeline provides optimized support for the `MistralForCausalLM` family
of large language models, as exemplified by the Mistral NeMo 12B text
completion model. The model itself has been constructed in Python
using the [MAX Graph API](https://docs.modular.com/max/graph/).

The MAX Graph API provides an accessible interface to the construction of
flexible accelerated compute graphs, which are then optimized by the MAX
Engine's advanced graph compiler. This pipeline showcases how a large language
model can be fully defined using Python and MAX Graphs and then compiled for
optimal inference performance via the MAX Engine.

## Model

[Mistral NeMo](https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-nemo/) is an open source large
language model released by [Mistral AI](https://mistral.ai) in partnership
with NVIDIA. The weight checkpoints have been released under an Apache 2.0
license.

The default settings for this pipeline use the NeMo 12B set of pretrained
weights in the `bfloat16` encoding.

## Usage

The easiest way to try out this pipeline is with our Magic command-line tool.

1. Install Magic on macOS and Ubuntu with this command:

   ```shell
   curl -ssL https://magic.modular.com | bash
   ```

   Then run the source command that's printed in your terminal.

   To see the available commands, you can run `magic --help`.
   [Learn more about Magic here](https://docs.modular.com/magic).

2. Clone the MAX examples repository:

   If you don't already have a local clone of this repository, create one via:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/modularml/max.git
   ```

   The following instructions assume that you're present within this pipeline's
   directory, and you can change to it after cloning:

   ```shell
   cd max/pipelines/python/
   ```

3. Now run the Mistral text completion demo with the following command:

   ```shell
   magic run mistral --prompt "I believe the meaning of life is"
   ```

4. Host a chat completion endpoint via MAX Serve.

   MAX Serve provides functionality to host performant OpenAI compatible
   endpoints using the FastAPI framework.

   You can configure the pipeline to be hosted by using the `--serve` argument.
   For example:

   ```shell
   magic run mistral --serve
   ```

   A request can be submitted via a cURL command.

   ```shell
   curl -N http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
   -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   -d '{
       "model": "mistralai/Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407",
       "stream": true,
       "messages": [
           {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
           {"role": "user", "content": "Who won the world series in 2020?"}
       ]
   }'
   ```

   Additionally, finetuned weights hosted on Hugging Face for any compatible
   `MistralForCausalLM` model can be used with this optimized architecture
   via the `serve` command:

   ```shell
   magic run serve --huggingface-repo-id=mistralai/Ministral-8B-Instruct-2410
   ```

## Options

The following command-line options are available to customize operation of the
pipeline:

- `--max-length`: Controls the maximum length of the text sequence
  (includes the input tokens).
  (Default value: 512)
- `--max-new-tokens`: The maximum number of new tokens to generate. If a -1
  value is provided, the model will continue to generate tokens for the entire
  context length. (Default value: -1)
- `--prompt`: The text prompt to use for further generation.
- `--quantization-encoding`: The encoding to use for a datatype that can be
  quantized to a low bits per weight format. The options for quantized formats
  will download and cache default weights, but `float32` requires the use of
 `--weight-path` to specify locally downloaded full-precision weights for use
  in the model.
  Valid values: `bfloat16`, `float32`.
  (Default value: `float32`).
- `--save-to-serialized-model-path`: If specified, writes the serialized model
  to this path.
- `--serialized-model-path`: If specified, tries to load a serialized model
  from this path.
- `--top-k`: Limits the sampling to the K most probable tokens. Default is 1.
- `--weight-path`: Overrides the default URL, and allows for an
  already-downloaded pretrained weight file to be used with the model.
- `--max-cache-batch-size`: Specifies the maximum batch size to be used.
  Default is 1.
- `--devices`: Specifies the device(s) to use for the model. This can optionally
  be "cpu", "gpu", or a comma-separated list of GPU ID(s) like "gpu-0,gpu-1".
  Defaults to the first available GPU, or "cpu" if no GPUs are available.
